# Answers to Questions I didnt know or guessed

## first mock
1. dedicated host supports byol - bring your own license
1. AWS Shield Advanced includes intelligent DDoS attack detection and mitigation for not only for network layer (layer 3) and transport layer (layer 4) attacks but also for application layer (layer 7) attacks. AWS Shield Advanced provides expanded DDoS attack protection for web applications running on the following resources: Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud, Elastic Load Balancing (ELB), Amazon CloudFront, Amazon Route 53, AWS Global Accelerator. AWS Elastic Beanstalk is covered under AWS Shield Standard.
1. encryption is enabled by default for Cloudtrail Logs. EFS, EBS, Amazon RDS - encryption is optional
1. DynamoDB global tables replicate data automatically across your choice of AWS Regions and automatically scale capacity to accommodate your workloads. DynamoDB offers active-active cross-region support that is needed for the company. 
1. DynamoDB Accelerator - is it more like caching solutions that we use?
1. Security group only has allow rules
1. NAT gateway is managed by AWS.
1. security groups are stateful - responses for outgoing traffic are allowed regardless of rules.
1. only Amazon S3 and Amazon DynamoDB support VPC gateway endpoint. All other services that support VPC Endpoints use a VPC interface endpoint (note that Amazon S3 supports the VPC interface endpoint as well).
1. Amazon Redshift is a fully-managed petabyte-scale cloud-based data warehouse product designed for large scale data set storage and analysis.
1. Each AWS Region consists of a minimum of three Availability Zones (AZ)
1. Read question incorrectly - Fault tolerance is achieved by a scale out operation and not by scale up operation.
1. replatform is lift, tinker and shift - move local db to amazon rds.
1. incorrectly read question - amazon direct connect connects in-house to cloud vpc using private high bandwidth connection
1. The AWS account must be able to operate as a standalone account. Only then it can be removed from AWS organizations.
1. CTO and devloper are common stakeholder as per CAF (Cloud adoption framework)
1. AWS Business Support prvides architectural guidance contextual to your use case.
1. VPC connectivity without public internet through AWS privatelink and AWS Transit gateway. (again did not read correctly the question)
1. There is a one-minute minimum charge for Linux based EC2 instances.
1. AWS owned keys (not in your account), AWS managed keys - created by AWS services on your behalf, customer managed keys
1. account specific activity and audit - cloudtrail, resource specific change history - config, resrouce performance monitoring, alerts, events - cloudwatch
1. Trusted Advisor cannot automate the infrastructure migration. AWS Trusted Advisor is an online tool that provides you real-time guidance to help you provision your resources following AWS best practices on cost optimization, security, fault tolerance, service limits, and performance improvement. 

## third mock

- Score: 80% (52/65 correct), ~1 hour, 17 questions marked for review
- Technology: 84% | Security and compliance: 80% | Cloud concepts: 89% | Billing and pricing: 56%
- Slides progress: 363/521
- Billing and pricing section was disproportionately hard - many questions felt clustered on the same nitpicky topics.

1. which of the following AWS services have data encryption automatically enabled? (Select two)? Storage gateway and S3
1. Amazon CloudWatch billing metric data is stored in which AWS Region? - US East (N. Virginia) - us-east-1
1. An IT company would like to move its IT resources (including any data and applications) from an AWS Region in the US to another AWS Region in Europe. Which of the following represents the correct solution for this use-case? - The company should just start creating new resources in the destination AWS Region and then migrate the relevant data and applications into this new AWS Region
1. A leading research firm needs to access information available in old patents and documents (such as PDFs, Text Files, Word documents, etc) present in its huge knowledge base. The firm is looking for a powerful search tool that can dig into these knowledge resources and return the most relevant files/documents. Which of the following is the correct service to address this requirement? - Amazon Kendra
1. A startup has just moved its IT infrastructure to AWS Cloud. The CTO would like to receive detailed reports that break down the startup's AWS costs by the hour in an Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) bucket. As a Cloud Practitioner, which AWS service would you recommend for this use-case? - AWS Cost & Usage Report (AWS CUR)
1. AWS Trusted Advisor analyzes your AWS environment and provides best practice recommendations for which of the following categories? (Select two) - Service Limits, Cost optimization
1. Which of the following are correct statements regarding the AWS Shared Responsibility Model? - For abstracted services like Amazon S3, AWS operates the infrastructure layer, the operating system, and platforms
1. Which of the following statements are true about Cost Allocation Tags in AWS Billing? - You must activate both AWS generated tags and user-defined tags separately before they can appear in Cost Explorer or on a cost allocation report, For each resource, each tag key must be unique, and each tag key can have only one value
1. An AWS user is trying to launch an Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instance in a given region. What is the region-specific constraint that the Amazon Machine Image (AMI) must meet so that it can be used for this Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instance? - You must use an Amazon Machine Image (AMI) from the same region as that of the Amazon EC2 instance. The region of the Amazon Machine Image (AMI) has no bearing on the performance of the Amazon EC2 instance.
1. An IT company is on a cost-optimization spree and wants to identify all Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instances that are under-utilized. Which AWS services can be used off-the-shelf to address this use-case without needing any manual configurations? (Select two) - AWS Cost Explorer, AWS Trusted Advisor
1. Which AWS services/features support High Availability by default? (Select two) - dynamo db, efs
1. Create separate AWS accounts for development and production environments to receive separate invoices
1. What is the primary benefit of deploying an Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) database in a Read Replica configuration? - read replica improve database scalability

## second mock

1. AWS Compute Optimizer recommends EC2 instance, EC2 auto scaling groups, Elastic Block Storage, Lambda (memory)
1. Which of the following AWS services is essential for implementing security of resources in AWS Cloud? - IAM
1. Which service gives a personalized view of the status of the AWS services that are part of your Cloud architecture so that you can quickly assess the impact on your business when AWS service(s) are experiencing issues? - AWS Health - Your Account Health Dashboard
1. The AWS Well-Architected Framework provides guidance on building cloud based applications using AWS best practices. Which of the following options are the pillars mentioned in the AWS Well-Architected Framework? (Select two) - reliability and cost optimization
1. The AWS Cloud Adoption Framework (AWS CAF) recommends four iterative and incremental cloud transformation phases. Which cloud transformation journey phase of the AWS Cloud Adoption Framework (AWS CAF) focuses on demonstrating how the cloud will help accelerate your business outcomes? - Envision.
1. Which policy describes prohibited uses of the web services offered by Amazon Web Services? - AWS Acceptable Use Policy
1. Access Key ID and Secret Access Key are tied to which of the following AWS Identity and Access Management (AWS IAM) entities? - IAM user
1. A gaming company is looking at a technology/service that can deliver a consistent low-latency gameplay to ensure a great user experience for end-users in various locations. Which AWS technology/service will provide the necessary low-latency access to the end-users? - AWS Local Zones
1. An organization has a complex IT architecture involving a lot of system dependencies and it wants to track the history of changes to each resource. Which AWS service will help the organization track the history of configuration changes for all the resources? - AWS Config

## fourth mock

1. Which pillar of AWS Well-Architected Framework is responsible for making sure that you select the right resource types and sizes based on your workload requirements? - Performance Efficiency
1. Which of the following is correct regarding the Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) service? - You can use both read replicas and multi-AZ deployment for disaster recovery
1. Which of the following statements are CORRECT regarding AWS Global Accelerator? (Select two) - AWS Global Accelerator is a good fit for non-HTTP use cases, AWS Global Accelerator provides static IP addresses that act as a fixed entry point to your applications
1. Which of the following describes an Availability Zone (AZ) in the AWS Cloud? - One or more data centers in the same location
1. Which of the following Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) storage classes has NO constraint of a minimum storage duration charge for objects? - Amazon S3 Standard
1. A multi-national organization has a separate virtual private cloud (VPC) for each of its business units on the AWS Cloud. The organization also wants to connect its on-premises data center with the different virtual private clouds (VPC) for better organization-wide collaboration. Which AWS services can be combined to build the MOST efficient solution for this use-case? (Select two) - AWS Transit Gateway, AWS Direct Connect
1. Bob and Susan each have an AWS account in AWS Organizations. Susan has five Reserved Instances (RIs) of the same type and Bob has none. During one particular hour, Susan uses three instances and Bob uses six for a total of nine instances on the organization's consolidated bill.

Which of the following statements are correct about consolidated billing in AWS Organizations? (Select two) - Bob receives the cost-benefit from Susan's Reserved Instances (RI) only if he launches his instances in the same Availability Zone (AZ) where Susan purchased her Reserved Instances
1. Which of the following are benefits of the AWS Web Application Firewall (AWS WAF)? (Select two) - AWS Web Application Firewall (AWS WAF) can check for the presence of SQL code that is likely to be malicious (known as SQL injection), AWS Web Application Firewall (AWS WAF) can block all requests except the ones that you allow
1. Which AWS services can be used together to send alerts whenever the AWS account root user signs in? (Select two) - Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS), Amazon CloudWatch
1. Which AWS service can be used to set up billing alarms to monitor estimated charges on your AWS account? Amazon CloudWatch
1. Which of the following Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) storage classes do not charge any data retrieval fee? (Select two) - Amazon S3 Intelligent-Tiering, Amazon S3 Standard
