# Databases

## Shared responsibility model

based on the ownership of admin tasks

### fully managed

For fully managed services, AWS handles nearly all operational tasks like provisioning, scaling, patching, backups, performance optimization, and security patches. AWS also provides built-in monitoring and metrics. Fully managed AWS database services only require customers to be responsible for designing data structures and managing access controls.

### managed

With managed database services, AWS handles routine tasks like backups, patching, and hardware provisioning while customers are responsible for database configuration, query optimization, and performance tuning decisions.

### unmanaged
With unmanaged databases, customers are responsible for installation, configuration, patching, maintenance tasks, database security, backups, high availability setup, and performance optimization. An example of an unmanaged database in AWS would be a database management system like MySQL installed directly on an Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instance.


## Amazon DMS - Database migration service
For lift and shift of inhouse database on EC2 instance



## Amazon RDS (relational database services)
supported database engines
Amazon Aurora, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Microsoft SQL Server, MariaDB, and Oracle Database

Benefits
- cost - time consuming tasks (users will pay for automation) backup,patching, monitoring
- reliability - multi AZ deployments - automatic failover to standby instance
- Performance optimization - Amazon RDS enhances database performance through automated management of resource allocation, monitoring, and optimization tasks. It includes features like automated backups and read replicas that can help offload read traffic from the primary instance. Amazon RDS performance insights provide real-time monitoring and analysis of database load, to help you identify and resolve performance bottlenecks quickly.
- Security controls - Amazon RDS enhances database security through multiple layers of protection, including VPC isolation as well as encryption at rest and in transit. It leverages automated backups and offers Multi-AZ deployments to provide resiliency against potential system failures.

## Amazon Aurora
Aurora is a managed relational database designed to help reduce unnecessary I/O operations. It's compatible with MySQL and PostgreSQL, provides high performance and availability, and automatically scales alongside your workloads. Aurora replicates data across multiple Availability Zones for enhanced durability and fault tolerance, and features automated backups, encryption at rest, and continuous monitoring.

Benefits
- high performance and availability -Aurora delivers up to five times the throughput of standard MySQL and three times the throughput of PostgreSQL. It uses a distributed storage system across multiple nodes to provide high performance and availability.
- automated storage and backup management - Aurora automatically grows storage from 10 GB to 128 TB based on your actual data usage, which eliminates guesswork in capacity planning. It also continuously backs up your database to Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) to provide point-in-time recovery.
- advanced replication and fault tolerace - Aurora replicates data across three Availability Zones with six copies of data, and provides 99.99% availability. It automatically detects database failures and redirects traffic to healthy replicas without data loss.

## RDS - Relational Database Service

managed service

- MySQL
- postgres
- mariadb

### Amazon Aurora

it's compatible with MySQL and PostgreSQL, provides high performance and availability, and automatically scales alongside your workloads.

gaming applications, media and content management, and real-time analytics.

cloud native unlike RDS where databases run on EC2 instance.

## DynamoDB - NoSQL databases

key value store

managed
NoSQL type of database with tables
scales
flexible data model

## Caching - ElastiCache

in memory storage of frequently used data. sub-millisecond access

redis OSS, valkey, memcached

- reduces load on databases - with caching you might not need very powerful databases.
- improvers performance.

ideal for storing -

- API response
- database query results
- other information that is required repeatedly

ElastiCache - Fully managed

session data management
database query enhancement
gaming leaderboards

high availability

## Amazon DocumentDB, AWS Backup, and Neptune

### documentDB - mongo compatible

content management systems, catalog and inventory management, and user profile and personalization systems.

### Neptune

graph database
social networking applications
fraud detection
search and recommendation

## AWS Backup

single window to manage them all - services and accounts
compliance
audit logs
cross region backup replication
