# Monitoring, Compliance and Governance in Cloud

    Securing systems 

    Monitoring activities 

    Conducting audits

    Ensuring compliance 

## Monitoring

Monitoring is performed using real-time monitoring tools, log collection and analysis, and dashboards.

## CloudWatch

monitoring and tracking metrics
centralized access for system wide resource utilization, application performance, and operational health
reduce mttr and improve TCO

cloudwatch alarm with threshold

SNS - send sms for alarms

- cloudwatch dashboard
- cloudwatch logs
- alarms
- metrics

## CloudTrail

audit trail

logs every AWS API call

temper proof

monitors events and delivers these as log files

can be used to prove compliance

events
logs
insights

## Compliance

Compliance refers to your cloud resources and data adhering to relevant regulations, industry standards, and internal policies regarding security and data protection.

inherit aws controls
third party validation of thousands of global requirements
streamlining and automating compliance
on demand compliance reports

### AWS Artifact

AWS Artifact agreements

AWS Artifact reports

## Auditing for compliance

### AWS config

audit, assess

### Audit Manager

automates audits and evidence collection

## AWS Organizations

many accounts once you mature - dev, prod, staging, infrastructure teams

Organizations provides several benefits like quickly scaling your environment by programmatically creating new AWS accounts for resources and teams. It also helps by simplifying permission management through SCPs and managing and optimizing costs across your AWS accounts and resources.

primary account with child accounts

OU - organizational unit
SCP - service control policies

## Governance

AWS services that can help govern and enforce services and accounts to meet your company's requirements.

### AWS control tower

AWS Control Tower can help you save time while providing governance. It uses preconfigured controls, which can help you to quickly set up multi-account environments, automation with built-in governance, and integration of third-party software at scale.

Use AWS Control Tower to quickly deploy applications and provision compliant AWS accounts.

Dashboard
Account Factory - template account
Controls - guardrails
Landing zone - A landing zone is a well-architected multi-account environment that's based on security and compliance best practices. It's the enterprise-wide container that holds all of the organizational units (OUs), accounts, users, and resources you want to regulate for compliance.

Managing employee requests for new AWS services or resources can be time consuming, but you also don't want everyone guessing which type of services and settings should be used. That's where Service Catalog can help.

### AWS Service Catalog

Use it to provision resources across AWS accounts, apply access controls, and accelerate provisioning of continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) pipelines.

### AWS License Manager

Use it to streamline license management and to simplify the Microsoft License Mobility through Software Assurance experience. You can also use it to automate the distribution and activation of software entitlements across AWS accounts for end users.
