# pricing & support

## pricing concepts

### pay as you go

when you dont know, changing business needs.

### save when you commit

steady state, commit to 1-3 year plan.

### pay less by using more

economy of scale, pricing is tiered.


compute - you pay from the time you launch a resource until the time you stop the instance.
storage -  With Amazon S3, consider the following six cost components when storing and managing customer data:
  Storage pricing
  Request and data retrieval pricing
  Data transfer and transfer acceleration pricing
  Data management and analytics pricing
  Replication pricing
  The price to process your data with Amazon S3 Object Lambda
outbound data transfer - In most cases, there is no charge for inbound data transfer or for data transfer between AWS services within the same Region.

Refer to the pricing tab on a service's webpage for details on its specific pricing factors.

for compute you pay for hours/seconds

For data storage and transfer, you typically pay per gigabyte.

## services

### AWS Organizations

AWS Organizations provides centralized management and governance of your AWS environment. Using AWS Organizations, you can create, group, and manage accounts. You can also apply security policies at the account level and consolidate billing with multiple accounts using a single payment method.

### AWS Billing and Cost Management dashboard

### AWS budget

at tag level

add tags to your cloud resources

set custom budgets
alerts when cost, usage utilization exeed threshold

### AWS cost explorer

visualize and analyze costs

### AWS Pricing Calculator

create estimates

## support

- basic support - has 24/7 access to customer service (no technical support)
- developer support - experimenting and testing - 12 - 24 hours tech support
- business support - production workloads in AWS - 4 - 1 hours tech support
- enterprise on ramp - production and business critical workloads in AWS. proactive guidance by TAM. < 30 min for business critical system down
- enterprise support - business critical and mission critical workloads in AWS. recommendations by aws account team. < 15 for business and mission critical system down.


TAM - techinal account manager
AWS trusted advisor checks

AWS re:Post - community forum with knowledge center

## marketplace

- third party software from vendors
- reduce developer time to develop features

## partner network

funding, events, training

solve issues together

retail might get help to use ML/AI partners to develop better recommendation engine

The APN helps AWS Partners build, market, and sell solutions based in AWS by providing them with technical, marketing, and go-to-market support.

## Cost optimization

compute optimizer service - rightsize your compute
spot instances - non critical work - 90% discounts - flexible workload
auto scaling
clean up unused resources
RDS:
read replicas and caching
S3 - right storage classes - S3 intelligence caching
compress text data
use lifecycle events
data transfer is not free - re-architect
VPC endpoints - out of region traffic

