# migrating to cloud

migrating to aws from in-house or from other cloud providers

## three phase process

- Assess - business case and assess readiness. Use Migration Evaluator service.

- Mobilize - prepare the organization and mobilize the resources needed for migration.

  - Migration Hub
  - Application Discovery Service

- Migrate and modernize: you use your strategy, plan, and the best practices to migrate and modernize. Tools to support you include AWS Application Migration Service and AWS Database Migration Service (AWS DMS). If you are transferring data, you might use AWS DataSync, AWS Transfer Family, and the AWS Snow Family.

## Cloud Adoption Framework

The AWS CAF is a framework that brings AWS experience and best practices to companies preparing to migrate to the AWS Cloud.

There are several groups of stakeholders and various parts of the business to consider in your migration planning and readiness.

1. Business
1. People -organization wide change management strategy
1. Governance - skills and processes
1. Platform - principles and patterns
1. Security
1. Operations

## Seven Migration Strategies

7 Rs

1. Rehost
1. Relocate
1. Replatform
1. Refactor
1. Repurchase (Drop and shop)
1. Retain
1. Retire

## Migration services and tools

- Migration evaluator - during assess phase. generates cost estimates.
- Application discovery - during mobilize phase. creates detailed migration plan.
- Migration hub - centralized hub for migration
- Application migrator - during migrate phase, you can use the Application Migration Service for on-premises applications running on physical servers or infrastructure, cloud-based applications, or moving between AWS Regions.

## Migrating databases

- Database Migration Service (DMS) - homogeneous migration
- Schema Conversion Service (SCT) - to convert from one database to another during migration - Going to a different engine, or heterogeneous migration, is more complex and might require changes in your application

## Transferring Data Online

services that can help with the considerations of online transfer for other types of data (non-database) and files.

consdierations:

- secure
- validate - will it get there in one piece
- bandwidth
- schedule and track - when is the best time

### Datasync

designed for automating and accelerating data transfer

You can use DataSync to migrate your data, archive your cold data, and manage hybrid data workflows.

### AWS Transfer Family

This service provides fully managed support for secure file transfers over FTP, Secure File Transfer Protocol (SFTP), File Transfer Protocol Secure (FTPS), and other protocols.

You can use the Transfer Family to modernize and manage your file transfers, simplify data sharing with your workforce and partners, and integrate transactional business data into a unified data lake.

### Direct Connect

AWS Direct Connect is a service that makes it possible for you to establish a dedicated private connection between your network and virtual private cloud (VPC) in the AWS Cloud. Because it is your dedicated connection, it is a fast, reliable, and secure way to transfer your data or files.

## Transferring Data Offline

Snowball Edge Storage Optimized devices - You can use Snowball Edge devices for data migration when offline migration is required. They can also be used for edge computing when a secure, rugged device is needed.

