# Ubuntu 24.01

- installed from the microsoft store. this option is not available in SLB as the microsoft store in banned.

## PATH

- a lot of windows folders are mounted
- both user and system environment varaibles are in ubuntu PATH
- these are all added after linux bin folders
- removed all windows paths (added vs code differently)

## git on wsl

- git came preinstalled
- to commmit, i had to setup global user.email and user.name. git output showed the commands.

  ```bash
  git config --global user.email "wise.dev45@outlook.com"
  git config --global user.name "kapil sinha"
  ```

- to my surprise sync including push worked without any additional settings. it should have asked me for my github username, password or credentials. lets try after removing generic credentials from windows crednetials of credential manager.
  - sync still worked.
  - even after restarting wsl and vs code sync still worked.
  - github desktop on windows failed and it asked to login on browser. it means ubuntu git is using some other mechanism.
  - i also removed git global config that was pointing credential helper to git-credential-wincred.exe on c:\program files\git\mingw64\libexec\git-core
  - logged out from github in the git-credential-manager.exe
  - and now I was popped a UI to login and then it all succeeded.
  - but even this didnt ask for username and password - maybe because it picked up stuff from windows credentials manager.

## vscode

- settings from the previous wsl dont exist here
- all extensions are also missing
- running code command worked but it first downloaded the vscode
- add path of vs code from windows to wsl path

## python

- installed pyenv following latest instructions
- changes to .bashrc didnt work as there were windows pyenv paths in the path
- manually added wsl pyenv paths at the beginning
- installed python 3.12.12 
- but python didnt work
- removed all windows paths from wsl path (i guess pyenv related ones were important) and now python works